Hello and welcome
to this Python tutorial.
All right so we just implemented
our sample_h function to sample the hidden node
according to the probabilities p_h_given_v,
and now we're gonna do the same
for the visible node because, of course,
from the values in the hidden nodes,
that is whether they were activated or not,
we will also estimate the probabilities
of the visible nodes,
that is the probabilities that each
of the visible node equals one.
And that is, of course, because our goal
in the end is to output the predicted ratings,
zero one, of the movies that were not originally
rated by the user, and these new ratings
that we get in the end are taken
from what we obtained in the hidden node,
that is from the samples of the hidden node.
So we have to make this function sample_v also,
but it's not the only reason.
It's because we also need it for Gibbs sampling
that we will apply next when we approximate
the log likelihood gradience.
All right so let's make this function,
and good news, it's going to be very simple
because, basically, we just need
to copy this sample_h function
because then you'll see that we will replace
just one or two things,
and you can already guess what we'll replace.
So let's copy that and okay.
So first, we're gonna call our function
sample_v because we will make some samples
of the visible node according to the probabilities
p this time v given_h.
You know given the values of the hidden nodes
we return the probabilities that each
of the visible nodes equals one.
So here that's the same.
It's p_v_given_h,
the probabilities that the visible nodes
equals one given the values of the hidden nodes
that is given whether the hidden nodes
are activated or not.
So here, again, that's the same p_v_given_h.
All right and that's the same.
We return the probability of v_given_h,
and we return some samples of the visible node
still based on that Bernoulli sampling.
That is we have our vector of probabilities
of the visible nodes.
That is since we have 1,682 movies,
then we have 1,682 visible nodes.
So we have a vector of 1,682 probabilities,
one probability for each of the visible nodes,
and so each of these probabilities
is the probability that the corresponding
visible node is equal to one
but that remember is given the activations
of the hidden nodes.
So we have this vector of probabilities
p_v_given_h, and from this vector
of probabilities we return some sampling
of the visible nodes.
That is let's say that the i f visible node
has a probability of 0.25,
then we take a random number
between zero and one.
If this number is below 0.25,
then this visible node will get the value one.
So that means that we predict
that the movie corresponding to that visible node
will get a like by the user,
and if this random number is larger
than 0.25, then this visible node
will get the value zero.
And, therefore, we predict that the movie
corresponding to that visible node
will not get a like by the user.
All right so let's see,
what do we need to change more?
So, okay, we replaced the probabilities
p_h_given_v by p_v_given_h here,
here and here as well,
so that's good, but that's not all.
We need to change, of course, what's inside
the activation function,
and to do the required change
well, first, we will replace
that variable x by y.
You know x in this sample_h function
represented the visible node
because we apply the sample_h function
to the visible node because we want
to return the probabilities that the hidden nodes
equal one according to the value
of the visible nodes.
So you know the variable is the visible node,
but here we were making this sample_v function
that will return the probabilities
of the visible nodes given the values
of the hidden nodes.
So the variable is this time the values
of the hidden nodes, and therefore y corresponds
to the hidden nodes.
So here that's the same we replace wx by wy.
Then same we take the torch product
of matrices, of tensors, of not x but y
by the torch tensor of all the weight,
but this time since we're making
the product of the hidden nodes
and the torch tensor of weight, that is w
for the probabilities p_v_given_h, well here
we must not take the transpose
because we're computing p_v_given_h.
Before, we had to the take the transpose
because we were computing p_h_given_v.
So since w is the weight matrix
of p_v_given_h, then that's why we had
to take the transpose, okay?
And then, we need to remove these parenthesis
because that was for the transpose function.
Here, you know when we take the transpose
we have to take this t plus the parenthesis
because this is a function,
the transpose function.
All right so now we have our wy.
We have a warning saying that it is unused.
Okay, that's fine.
We will use it actually right now.
So then we have compute the activation
of the hidden neurons inside the sigmoid function,
and so, therefore, that's not wx here, but wy.
And here that's the same, it's wy.
All right and then, of course, let's not forget
to the replace the a here by the b
because we need to take the bias
of the visible nodes, and the bias
of the visible nodes are in this self.b variable,
and we have to take the self
because this is a variable attached
specifically to the object.
The object that will be created
by the RBM class.
All right so now I think we got everything,
and we need to use the expand functions
still for the same reason,
that is to apply the bias to each line
of the mini-batch.
All right so great, so I think we got everything
to make this sample_v function.
Here that's the same.
We take the sigmoid activation function,
and here we return the probabilities
that the visible nodes equal one
given the activations of the hidden nodes.
So that's all good.
We are ready to move onto the next
and final step of the construction
of this class, which is about contrastive divergence,
and so we'll make a last function
that we'll call train.
And this last function will take care
of contrastive divergence.
All right so we'll do that in the next tutorial,
and until then enjoy deep learning.